1.1 Identify basic features of Microsoft Windows editions
	Mainstream support for all versions to 5 years after release
	There's no Windows 9 
	Windows 10 was 1 OS on desktops, laptops, phones, tablets, etc. 
	12 different versions, most recent in November 2021 (21H2)
	x86 only needed 1GB RAM, x64 needs 2. Need 32 GB of storage for both. 
		Microsoft DirectX 9 graphics card and WDDM driver, 800X600 resolution min. 
	
Windows 10 editions
	Home - Home users. Default edition for anyone outside of work environment. 
		Integrates Microsoft account, and OneDrive backups
		Windows Defender for antivirus and anti malware
		Cortana - talk to your device. Now getting phased out
	Pro - Business, professional version. 
		Remote desktop host - other people in the organization can control your 
		desktop.
		BitLocker - full disk encryption (FDE). Everything on the drive is 
		encrypted when you log out. 
		Connect to active directory server on Windows domain, so the IT team can 
		manage your device. 
	Pro for Workstations - High end desktops. Enhanced performance and storage. 
		4 physical CPUs, max RAM of 6TB
		Resilient File System (ReFS) - available for Windows Server
	Enterprise - Built for large implementations, with many desktops in the 
	environment. 
		Allows for volume licensing, for better prices. 
		AppLocker - additional management capability. Can control what apps are running
		BranchCache - remote site file caching, instead of pulling over WAN connections
		Granular User Experience (UX) control - completely customize the available 
			features in the user environment. 
			Like for a kiosk, or a specific workstation.

Feature differences
	Domain access vs. workgroup
		Active Directory Domain Services - A centralized database of the things on your network. 
			Distributed architecture - so you have many active directory servers
		Windows Workgroups - connect devices on same network, and share resources. Not centralized so 
			every device has its own set of authentication credentials.
		Windows Domain - Centralized authentication. Single login provides access to any resources. 
			Supports thousands of devices.
	Desktop styles/user interface
		Work - Standard desktop, common user interface, limited customization
		Home - Complete flexibility
	Availability of Remote Desktop Protocol (RDP)
		RDP - view and control the desktop of remote device. Connect using RDP client. This connects to
		Remote Desktop Service that's running on the remote system, and provides access. Support for many 
		different OSs available. Not supported in Home. 
		Home can be a client only, the rest can be client and host. 
		Home does support remote assisstance, so a technician can temporarily connect to your machine
	Random-access memory(RAM) support limitations
		All versions support 4GB RAM max for x86.
		For x64:
			Home supports 128GB RAM max 
			Pro supports 2TB RAM max 
			Pro Workstations and Enterprise support 6TB RAM max 
	BitLocker
		Encrypting file system (EFS) - choose individual files and folders to be encrypted. 
		BitLocker allows Full Disk Encryption (FDE) - which encrypts all the data on the drive and 
			the OS itself. 
		BitLocker isn't usually availble for Home. Check documentation to see.
	gpedit.msc
		Group policy editor - configure policies that manage users and systems. Could be part of 
			Active Directory or a local system. 
		Local Group Policy - gpedit.msc
			Set policies on local device without using active directory. 
		Group Policy Management Console - gpmc.msc
			for business/enterprise setting. Integrated with Active Directory. 

Upgrade paths 
	In-place Upgrade
		Upgrade keeps files and apps in place, just updating the OS underneath
		Maintains consistency. Your  configurations, user accounts, files, apps, all migrate.
		Saves hours of time. Up and running quickly
		Cannot go from x86 to x64 and vice versa. Applies to all Windows versions. 
		Start the upgrade setup from the existing OS
		Different upgrade paths may be available to you, check documentation. 
			Windows 7 or 8.1 to 10
			8 > 8.1 > 10, no other way
			10 > 11
	Clean Install
		Install means your overwriting everything and starting with a fresh installation
		Wipe everything and reload. Backup files so you can restore them. Usually uses boot media 
		to start the setup.
		Can switch from x64 to x86 and vice versa. 
		
	Not really DVD drives anymore, now you download from internet. 
	You'll create Windows installation media from Microsoft. Includes a media creation tool so you can 
	setup your USB drive to be bootable. 
	
	Afterwards, check if it boots. And then some testing 
		Applications working? User data still there?
		You can go back with 
			Start > Settings > System > Recovery > Go back
			
		Additional installations may be needed. 
			Service packs, security packs, applications, drivers, updates, etc. 
		Check Windows Update to see if you're all caught up. 
		 
1.2 Given a scenario, use the appropriate Microsoft command-line tool
		Standard privileges - applies to any user. 
		Administrative (elevated) privileges - member of the Admin group. You use an elevated prompt with 
		more functionality. 
		"help" command for ... help. 
			help dir, help chkdsk, etc gives more information
			[command] /? - same thing
				close with "exit"
		"cls" - clear the screen
		
	Navigation
		"dir" - list files and directories
		"cd" or "chdir" - change the working directory. Use "\" to specify volume, folder, file name
			".." - the folder above the current folder
		"md" or "mkdir" - make directory
		"rd" or "rmdir" - remove directory
		Drive navigation inputs
			Each drive partition is assigned a letter. Primary usually C.
			"C:" - primary, local storage drive  
			
	Command-line tools
		"hostname" - view the Windows Device name of the device.
			Can be changed in system settings
			Especially useful when you have multiple terminals open
		"format" - formats a disk for use with Windows. You WILL lose data. 
		"xcopy" - copies multiple files in multiple folders and directory trees
			"/s" - flag that says to copy subdirectories of the folder as well
				The command will "print" all the files being copied. 
		"copy" - copy files. "copy <source file> <destination file>"
			Add flags before <source file>
			"/v" - flag that verifies the new file is identical to source. 
			"/y" - flag that answers yes in advance to the prompt asking to overwrite
		"robocopy" - robust copy, better than xcopy, bunch of features. Windows 10 and 11. 
		"gpupdate" - force a group policy update without having you logout and in. 
			raw only applies changes to group policies
			"/force" - updates EVERYTHING
		"gpresult" - view the current configuration 
		"shutdown" - shutdown command
			"/s" - specifies shutdown
			"/r" - specifies restart
			"/t nn" - wait nn seconds and then shutdown 
			"/a" - abort the shutdown countdown
		"<command name> /?" or "help <command name>" - information about command
			"help" - gives a list of commands
		"diskpart" - runs a program that manages disk configurations. You can lose data, be careful
		"winver" - opens the About Windows box
		"ipconfig" - adapter information, IP information, configuration settings. 
			"/all" - more information
		"ping" - test reachability, determine round trip time
			TTL (time to live) - number of hops remaining when the packet arrives
				TTL=1 is first router, TTL=2 is the second router, etc.
		"netstat" - network statistics
			"-a" - show all active connections
			"-b" - show binaries, requires elevation
			"-n" - no names are resolved, only IP addresses
		"nslookup" - Name server lookup, from DNS servers. 
		"net" - Windows network commands
			"view", "view \\<servername>" -  view network resources/shares
			"use", "use <drive>: \\<servername>\<sharename>" - map the share to drive letter
			"user" = view users on device, make changes
		"tracert" - determine the route a packet takes to a destination and back
			"-d" - no name resolution
			Some firewalls won't allow a device to respond
		"pathping" - combine ping and traceroute
			First runs a traceroute, building a map
			Then it pings each hop
			"-n" - no name resolution
		"sfc" - System file check. Tool that lets you repair corrupt system files
		"chkdsk" - verify file system integrity of a volume, tries to fix logical file system errors
		
		
1.3 Given a scenario, use features and tools of the Microsoft Windows 10 OS
	Task Manager
		Services - Non interactive applications. Hundreds of background processes
			Manage all from one screen. Start, stop, restart, etc. 
		Startup - Manage what programs start with a Windows login. 
		Performance - CPU, memory, internet over time. Real time view, historical view. 
			Network utilization, link speeds, etc. 
		Processes - All running processes. Interactive and system tray apps, also other accounts. 
			Move columns, add metrics. 
		Users - Who is connected, and what are they doing. Disconnect a user, manage accounts. 
	Microsoft Management Console (MMC) snap-in - mmc.exe. 
		You can build your own console, add whatever utilities and views you want. Add snap ins. 
		 
		Event Viewer (eventvwr.msc) - Central event consolidation
			Application, security, setup, system. Has information, warnings, errors, critical, 
			successful audit, failure audit
		Disk Management (diskmgmt.msc) - Manage disk operations
		Task Scheduler (taskschd.msc) - Schedule an application or script
			Predefined schedules, or custom ones. Can also organize tasks. 
		Device Manager (devmgmt.msc) - Manage drivers and connected devices.
			OS doesn't talk directly to most hardware, it needs drivers. 
			Drivers are hardware and OS specific. Older versions may not necessarily work. 
		Certificate Manager (certmgr.msc) - View user and trusted certificates
		Local Users and Groups (lusrmgr.msc) - Users could be administrator, guest, regular
			Users can also be added to a group, so that you can make mass changes. 
		Performance Monitor (perfmon.msc) - long term statistics on disk, memory, CPU, etc. usage
			Set alerts and automatic actions. Store statistics so you can analyze it later. 
			Built in reports to view the data. 
		Group Policy Editor (gpedit.msc) - Central managament of users and systems on the network
			Security policies, software restrictions, etc. 
			Can be part of Active Directory (gpmc.msc) or for local device (gpedit.msc). 
	Additional tools
		System Information (msinfo32.exe) - system overview. Hardware resources like memory, OS, 
			conflicts, interrupt settings. Information about components, like input, display, network
			Software environment - drivers, print jobs, running tasks
		Resource Monitor (resmon.exe) - Detailed real time view of performance. 
		System Configuration (msconfig.exe) - Manage boot processes, startup, services, etc. 
		Disk Cleanup (cleanmgr.exe) - Find unused or unneeded files. 
		Disk Defragment (dfrgui.exe) - move file fragments so they are contiguous, improving read
			and write time. Not necessary for SSDs. There's also a graphical version in drive properties
			Requires elevated permissions
		Registry Editor (regedit.exe) - Windows Registry editor. Huge master database, which is a 
			hierarchical database about kernel, drivers, services, SAM, interface, applications, 
			almost everything. Backup your registry before changes. 
	
1.4 Given a scenario, use the appropriate Microsoft Windows 10 Control Panel utility
	Internet Options 
		General - is basic overview of the browser presents information
		Security - Different access options based on site location
		Privacy - how much information you share. Cookies, pop-ups, private browsing
		Content - Certificates and auto-complete. 
		Connections - VPN and proxy settings
		Programs - Default browser, plugins, etc. 
		Advanced - detailed congiguration settings
	Devices and Printers - Everything on the network
		Desktops, laptops, printers, etc. 
		Less complex than device manager. Has properties, configurations, etc.
	Programs and Features - Installed applications
		Uninstall, size, version
		Turn Windows features on/off
	Network and Sharing Center - All network adapters
		All network configs
	System - Computer information. Version and edition
		Advanced system settings, remote desktop
	Windows Defender Firewall - Protect from attacks. Integrated into OS and automatically on. 
	Mail - Icon doesn't appear unless you already downloaded a mail client like Outlook
		Access to local mail configuration. Account information and data files. 
	Sound - Output options. Multipe devices may be available.
		Set levels for input and output
	User Accounts - Local user accounts. Domain accounts are stored elsewhere. 
		Account name and type. Change password, picture, certificate information
	Device Manager - Drivers n shiz. First place to look when hardware isn't working
	Indexing Options - Speed up the search process. Control what information is searched, like 
		browser history, certian user folders, etc. You can also include/exclude any folder
	Administrative Tools - Useful system tools
	File Explorer Options - Manage files/directories. 
		General - How folders work, what clicking does, etc
		View - Hidden files, hide extensions, other things
		Search - disale index searching, search non indexed areas.
	Power Options
		Hibernate - open docs and apps are saved to disk. Common on laptops, used for Fast Startup
		Sleep (standby, suspend) - Open apps are stored in memory. Saves power, quick startup. When power is low, it'll
			switch to hibernate
		Power plans - Customize power usage. What happens when you close the lid, what if its 
			charging, etc. Disable biometrics, fingerprint for power saving. Enable/disable fast 
			startup
			USB selective suspend - Can disable individual USB devices
	Ease of Access - Usability enhancements, useful for everyone
		Change display, keyboard, mouse, other I/O options
		Use Windows without display, change mouse pointer, etc. 
	
1.5 Given a scenario, use the appropriate Windows settings
	Time and Language - Windows can automatically set the time
		Active Domain is very sensitive to synchronized clocks, default 5 minutes of tolerance
		And change languages
	Update and Security - Keep OS up to date. 
		Automatic installation, or have active hours to control update time. 
	Personalization - Change the way it looks and feels
	Apps - Manage installed applications. Add Windows features like fonts, OpenSSH Server, SNMP
	Privacy - Share app activity, customized ads. Share your language, for web content. Speech 
		recognition can be enabled/disabled
	System 
		Change display options
		Audio settings
		Notifications, if they're on the lock screen
	Devices - Manage all devices. Mouse settings, typing, stylus, etc. 
	Network and Internet - Internet status, Chane IP settings
	Gaming - Xbox Game Bar. Chat, join games, look for friends, etc. 
	Accounts - Manage login account information
		Email configuration 
		Sign-in options
	
1.6 Given a scenario, configure Microsoft Windows networking features on a client/desktop
	Workgroup vs. domain setup
		Shared resources - folder or printer becomes available on network
			Assign a drive letter to the share
			Shares ending with $ are hidden
		Printers - printer properties, can share printer. Can specify policies of access.
			Someone else can "add" a printer and find the shared printer
		File servers
		Mapped drives - associate drive letter with share. Can require credentials, can reconnect 
			automatically 
			Command line: "net use h: '<location>'"
	Proxy settings - Change the traffic flow, works as an "in between"
		Define address and exceptions manually
	Public network vs. private network
		Private - share and connect to devices also on the network. Home or work network
		Public - No sharing, like a coffee shop.
		Different security settings for private vs public
	File Explorer navigation - network paths
		Connect with map network drive, specify
		To disconnect, you rightclick and disconnect
	Metered connections and limitations 
		Metered reduces data usage, slow network links, limited bandwidth, etc. 
		You can also set limits on how much data is being used, etc. 
		Alerts, set by app, etc. Change update and auto sync settings. 
	
	Local OS firewall settings 
		Application restrictions and exceptions 
			Exceptions allow an app or feature through Windows firewall. 
			Set these separately for public and private networks. 
			Predefined exceptions exist, you can also set custom rules for access
		Configurations
			Block all incoming connections, including your whitelist
			Modify the notification settings
	Client network configuration
		IP addressing scheme
			DHCP - Automatic, default IP addressing
			APIPA - no static address, no DHCP server. Communicate locally, link-local address. 
				169.254.1.0 to 169.254.254.255
				No internet connectivity
			Static address - Assign all IP configurations manually. Need to know specific details
		DNS settings - 
		Subnet mask - Identifies the subnet you're in 
		Gateway - The router's address that allows communication with the outside world
		Loopback address : 127.0.0.1 to troubleshoot. Always there. 
		Alternate configuration - instead of APIPA, you get a manually preset configuration
	Establish network connections
		VPN - Creates an enrypted tunnel between the device and the concentrator. 
			VPN concentrator - a machine set up at the organization
			So you can access the corporate network securely from a remote workplace
			Could be built in Windows VPN, or 3rd party software, etc. 
			You could integrate a smart card for additional authentication
		Wireless
			Network name - SSID (Service Set Identification)
			Security type - encrption methods
			Encryption type - TKIP, AES
			Security key 
				WPA2 Personal - everyone has the same security key
				WPA2 Enterprise - 802.1x authentication with username and password
		Wired - Windows picks the fastest type as default between wired, wwan, etc.
		Wireless wide are network (WWAN) - Specialize hardware, maybe with an antenna. Access to the 
			cellular network. Can have access through tethering or hotspot. Requires 3rd party software. 
	
1.7 Given a scenario apply application installation and configuration concepts
	System requirements for applications 
		32 bit vs 64 bit dependent application requirements
			32 bit (x86) processors store 2^32 values
			64 bit (x64) is 2^64. 4GB vs 17 billion
			
			Hardware drivers are specific to OS verson
			32 bit OS can't run 64 bit apps, but 64 bit OS CAN run 32 bit apps. 
		Dedicated graphics card vs integrated
			Integrated means CPU and GPU are on same chip. System memory used for graphics. 
			Dedicated graphics card (discrete graphics card) has its own processor, its own 
				VRAM (Video RAM)
		RAM requirements - app has to execute within the memory
			Should be a lot more than OS requirements 
		Central processing unit (CPU) requirements
			Processing speed, measured in GHz. Good starting point for relative speed, but other factors 
				are important. 
		External hardware tokens - Manage application usage, limit access to authorized users. 
			Usually a USB device. Could be annoying to manage. Usually for high end software.
		Storage requirements - Drive space, initial installation, app requirements. 
	OS requirements for applications
		Application to OS compatibility
		32 bit vs 64 bit OS
	Distribution methods
		Downloadable 
			Direct from the manufacturer ideally. Or centralized app store. Avoid 3rd party
		Physical media
			optical media, USB drive, etc. For a remote location. 
		ISO mountable - Optical disk image
			A single ISO file/ISO image has files and folders
			Sector by sector copy of the optical drive. 
				Optical drives have a standard format for the information, ISO 9660 file system
			Mount in the OS, appears as separate drive
	Other consideration for new applications
		Impact to device - app stops working, slowdown, delete files
		Impact to network - Access to internal services, rights and permissions to file shares 
		Impact to operation - Jobs can be time sensitive. Updated app can cause workflow changes. OR HALTS. 
		Impact to business - Sensitive to downtime and outages, other parts of business could rely on 
			this app, etc. Single change can cause cascading issues. 
			
1.8 Explain common OS types and their purposes
	Workstation OSs
		Windows - great industry support, good selection of OS options, good variety of software
			support. But large userbase means more security problems, and hardware will require 
			drivers
		Linux - Unix based OS, free. Many distributions for different purposes. Works on good 
			range of hardware, has an active and great community. Could have limited driver 
			support, and limited support in general. Support is community focused, not a particular
			computer
		macOS - Desktop OS for Apple hardware. Easy to use, very compatible with its own apps, 
			much better security because of closed market. But requires Apple hardware, less support 
			than PC, and expensive. 
		Chrome OS - Based on Linux kernel, centers around Chrome browser. Apps tend to be web based. 
			Many different manufacturers for "Chromebooks", and its very minimal hardware. Cheaper
			but storage is usually in the cloud
	Cell phone/table OSs
		iPadOS - OS for iPads, variant of iOS. Safari is the desktop browser, second monitor with
			Sidecar, can use a keyboard/mouse, supports multitasking
		iOS - Based on Unix, closed-source. Apps are developed with iOS SDK(Software developer kit) 
			that runs on macOS. Apps must be approved by Apple, and are distributed in App store. 
		Android - Open source OS based on Linux. Supported on many different devices. Apps are 
			developed with Android SDK that works on Windows, macOS, and Linux. Apps from Google Play
			or third party. 
	Various filesystem types
		NTFS (New Technology File System) - Improvements over FAT32 like quotas, file compression
			encryption, symbolic links, large file support, security, recoverability
			Not very compatible, pretty much for Windows. But most OSs can at least READ this 
			system
		FAT32 (File Allocation Table 32) - 2TB volume sizes, 4GB max file size
		ext3 (Third extended filesystem) - Common for Linux
		ext4 (Fourth extended filesystem) - Common for Linux and Android OS
		APFS (Apple File System) - Optimized for SSDs, has encryption, snapshots, better data integrity
		exFAT (Extensible File Allocation Table) - Flash drive for Windows. Larger than 4GB files. 
			Compatible across OSs. 
	Vendor life-cycle limitations
		EOL (End-of-life) - Policies depends on company
		Update limitations - 
	Compatibilty concerns between OSs - Some apps and data files can be shared. But for the most part, 
		apps must be built for that OS. 
	
1.9 Given a scenario, perform OS installations and upgrades in a diverse OS environment
	Boot methods 
		USB/Flash drive - USB must be bootable, and computer must support boot from USB. 
			Install the OS installation files to the drive
			Configure BIOS of computer to boot from drive 
		Optical media - CD-ROM and DVD-ROM 
		Network - For an enterprise or something, when you have hundreds of OSs to install. 
			Remote installation of the OS across the network
			PXE (Preboot eXecution Environment) - Configure centralized server on the network with 
				all the installation files. Then boot the computer into PXE mode, it searches the 
				network to find the server, and begins installation. 
		SSD/HDD - Store OS installtion files, boot from that. 	
		Internet-based - Files are downloaded from servers on the internet. Like Linux. macOS 
			Recovery installation is the same. Also Windows updates. 
		External/hot-swappable drive - Store the installtion on a separate drive, boot from USB. 
			Sometimes you can mount it as an ISO image, so it looks like an optical drive. 
		Internal hard drive (partition) - You can install and boot the OS from a separate drive, 
			or from one partition to the other. 
	Types of installations
		Upgrade - "in place upgrade" maintains existing apps and data
		Recovery partition - A hidden partition with installation files
		Clean install - Wipe it clean and reinstall. Migration tools are nice
		Image deployment - Deploy a clone on every computer on the network. Quick, can be automated
		Repair installation - An installation done just to clear problems with the OS without
			touching the user files or apps 
		Remote network installation - Local server or shared drive that has the installation 
			details. Or even across the internet. 
		Other considerations
			Third party drivers may beed to be downloaded if necessary. Sometimes DURING the installation
	Partitioning - Separate physical drive into logical pieces. Microsoft calls them "volumes" 
		GUID (Globally unique identifier) Partition Table (GPT)
			Requires UEFI BIOS. Can have up to 128 partitions. Max size is 9b TB.
		Master boot record (MBR) - Max partition of 2TB. 
			Primary partition - the bootable partitions. Max of 4 per disk, one can be marked "active"
			Extended - If you need more partitions, but none are bootable. 
		DELETES DATA 
	Drive format
		Quick format - creates a new file table, doesn't delete all the old data instantly, so you 
			may be able to recover data. default format during installation for Windows 10 and 11
			No additional checks 
		Full format - "diskpart" in terminal. Writes 0s to the whole disk, the data is unrecoverable
			Checks the disk for bad sectors, can be time consuming
	Upgrade considerations
		Backup files and user preferences
		Applications and driver support/backward compatibilite
		Hardware compatibility, OS requirements. Hardware compatibility check
	Feature updates
		Annual updates with new features
		Quality updates - monthly updates to security, bugs
		Support for 18-36 months after release
	
1.10 Identify common features and tools of the macOS/desktop OS
	Installation and uninstallation of applications
		File type
			.dmg - Apple Disk image. Mountable as a drive in Finder
			.pkg - Installer package. Runs through an installer script. 
			.app - Application bundle. Contains necessary files to use the app
		App Store - Centralized updates and patches for the OS and apps. 
			List of all apps you've installed to manage them. Patch management. 
		Uninstallation process
			Move a .app file to the Trash, it contains all the app files
			Some require a special uninstaller program included with it
	Apple ID and corporate restrictions - Personal Apple products use a personal Apple ID
		Companies used Managed Apple IDs using Apple Business Manager. 
			Integrate with Active Directory
			Connect with existing MDM(Mobile device manager)
			Assign and move apps and content to users 
	Best practices
		Backups - Time Machine is built in. All files are backed up to a repository. Then it 
			adds hourly changes, daily, for a whole month. Then monthly updates. 
			Continue as long as you have drive space. It starts deleting oldest files when its full
		Antivirus - No built in software, but plenty of 3rd party options. 
		Updates/patches
	System Preferences - Equivalent of Control Panel
		Displays - Location of multiple displays, primary display, Apple Meny location, individial 
			display settings, color, etc. 
		Networks - Configure network interfaces. IP information, detailed settings
		Printers & Scanners - manage them, configure individual settings, rights and permissions
			Printer status - toner, etc. 
		Privacy - Limit app access to private data. Manage access to camera, microphone, location, 
		Accessibility - Allow apps to use system input. Scripting and automation. Limits third party
			applications
		Time Machine - Automated backups
	Features
		Multiple desktops
		Mission Control - View everything that's running. Spread desktop to viewable area. Create 
			multiple desktops, or "spaces". Swipe up with 3 fingers or Control + Up Arrow. 
		Keychain - Passwords, notes, certificates management. Integrated into macOS, apps can access 
			Keychain for authentication. 
			Everything inside is encrypted. Decryption key is associated with the login credentials
		Spotlight - Equivalent to Windows search. Click the magnifying glass or Command+Space. 
			Define search categories in system preferences 
		iCloud - integrates Apple devices. Calendar, photos, documents, contacts, etc. 
			Backup iOS devices. Store files in iCloud drive, similar to Dropbox, Google Drive.
		Gestures - More than point and click. Configure them in preferences. 
		Finder - Equivalent to File Explorer. 
		Remote Disc - Use optical drive from another computer
			Designed for copying files, doesn't work with audio or video discs. 
			Preferences, Sharing 
		Dock - Fast access to apps, launch shortcutted programs. Keep folders in dock as well. 
			Move to different sides of the screen, edit features. 
	Disk Utility - Manage disks and images. File system utilities, partition, create images
	FileVault - FDE for macOS. Everything on disc is encrypted. Only way to access is with login 
		credentials or iCloud login. macOS won't start without authentication. 
	Terminal - Command line access to OS. Manage files, run scripts, settings
	Force Quit - Stop an app from executing. Command+Option+Escape. Or Option+click
	
	
1.11 Identify common features and tools of the Linux client/desktop OS - Similar to macOS, since 
		both are Unix 
	Common commands
		ls - "dir", list directory. Files, directories, could be color coded 
			ls -l : for more information 
			ls -l | more : to view more, limited by pages at a time
		pwd - print working directory. Shows the current working directory path
		mv - move a file. Also rename it. 
			mv <source file> <destination file>
		cp - Copy a file. Or directories. 
			cp <source> <destination>
		rm - remove a file. or directories that are empty. Else, use -r
		chmod - change mode of a file system object. 
			r is read, w is write, x is execute
			File permissions depending on user
			chmod <mode> <file> 
				<mode> is a 3 digit number, representing U, G, O permissions
				the digit is from 0-7 depending on permission. 
				0 - none. 1 - X. 2 - W. 3 - WX. 4 - R. 5 - RX. 6 - RW. 7 - RWX 
				
				<mode> can also be 3 digit "letter"
					Representing group, operation, permission
					a-w : All users, remove, writing privileges
					u+x : User, add, execution privileges
		chown - change file owner and group. Requires sudo. 
			sudo chown [Owner:Group] file
				Group is optional
		su/sudo - Gives elevated priveleges for a single command. Requires authentication. 
			Can also be a different user than current one. 
			Su makes you become a super user. Every subsequent command is executed as such.
			Continues until exit command
		apt-get - Advanced packaging tool. Lets you install, update, remove packages. 
			sudo apt-get install wireshark
		yum - Yellowdog Updater, Modified. 
			install, update, remove RPM (Red Hat Package Manager) packages
			So you may be using apt-get or yum for your particular distribution
		ip - Manage network interfaces 
			ip address : View interface addresses
			ip route : View IP routing table 
			sudo ip address add <address>/<mask> dev <name of adapter>  
				Configure IP address of an interface 
		df - Disk Free, view file systems and free space 
			Default is to show space in number of blocks 
			df - h : human readable sizes, MB etc. 
		grep - Find text in a file, also search through many files at a time
			grep <Pattern> <File> 
			Prints the lines that have the pattern word 
		ps - View current processes and PID (Process ID) 
			ps : View user processes 
			ps -e : All processes 
				ps -e | more : the organzied view. Q to quit 
		man - manual, "help" command. like "man grep" for help on the grep command
		top - View CPU, RAM, resource utilizations, live updates. Hit enter to manually refresh
			Can kill, halt, other stuff. Check man top. Q for quit. 
		find - Find a file by name or extension 
			Search through any or all directories 
			find . -name "name" : . for current directory. -name specifies how to search. 
				"name" can be like "*.txt", so all text files
		dig - Domain Information Groper - Lookup information from DNS servers 
			Detailed domain information
			Not automatically included with Windows, but can be added 
		cat - Concatenate, link together in a series 
			Copy a file/files to the screen 
				cat file1 file2 
			Copy files to file 
				cat file1 file2 > file3 
		nano - Full screen text editor 
			Included with many distributions, can be installed 
			Select, mark, copy, cut, paste text 
	Best practices
		Backups - Command line and graphical options, may be included with distribution
			tar - Tape Archive. Any type of media 
				Easy to script into a backup schedule 
			rsync - sync files between storage devices 
				Instant or scheduled 
		Antivirus - relatively few viruses and malware in Linux 
			Clam Antivirus - open source antivirus 
			Use real time scanning, always update signature database 
		Updates/patches - apt-get or yum. Can also use Software center, the Linux "App store"
	Tools
		Shell/terminal - command line access to the OS 
			OS maintenance, run scripts, manage files
		Samba - Add SMB to Linux 
			File and print sharing, Active Directory integration 
			Integrate Linux into a Windows environment 